The R commands in this folder reporduce the analysis of bacterial interaction networks in Beilsmith, Perisin, & Bergelson 2020: 
"Transient interactions and influence in endophytic bacterial networks."

0_KBMP2020_BuildNetworks.R
This file contains the commands to load the required libraries for the project, import the microbiome dataset as a phyloseq class, 
and infer microbe interaction networks with both an inverse covariance and a correlation approach. The networks are saved as
matrices in the AssembledNetworks folder of the project directory. Building the networks requires the files in the Dataset folder.

1_KBMP2020_ImportNetworks.R
This file contains the commands to load the networks of microbial interactions from the matrices stored in AssembledNetworks and
to add some attributes to the edges representing the strengths and directions of the inferred interactions.

2_KBMP2020_AddAttributes.R
This file contains the commands to add additional attributes to the nodes and edges of the networks loaded with the previous
commands. Nodes (representing ASVs) are assigned raw abundance, relative abundance, prevalence (number of samples where found), 
and taxonomy at the level of phylum, class, order, and family based on the microbiome dataset. Edges are assigned a phylogenetic
distance based on the branch length between the two connected ASVs in the 16S tree of the microbiome dataset. Nodes are assigned
degree (number of edges attached) and betweenness centrality (an influence measure based on shortest paths between nodes). Nodes in
the 90th percentile or higher for both degree and influence are categorized as putative "hub" microbes. Nodes with no edges
attached are pruned to produce the final network graphs and colors are assigned to reflect node taxonomy and the direction of edge
correlations in figures.

3_KBMP2020_NetworkConservation.R
These commands explore the extent to which interactions and hub ASVs are conserved between datasets from different tissues, 
sites, and developmental stages. Results are stored in the Tables and Figures folders.

4_KBMP2020_NetworkDynamics.R
These commands explore the extent to which nodes (ASVs) change their number of interaction partners over developmental time.
Results are stored in the Tables and Figures folders.

5_KBMP2020_MakePlots.R
These commands make plots for the root and phyllosphere networks from each site and stage and highlight various features. 
The plots are stored in the Figures folder.

6_KBMP2020_NetworkStats.R
These commands compare the inverse covariance (Cov) and correlation (Cor) networks inferred from each dataset for the following
properties: number of connected vertices, number of edges and proportion of edges with positive vs. negative correlations between
ASVs, and the number of vertices (ASVs) designated as hubs. The number of edges and the number of hub vertices shared between
networks inferred with the covariance (Cov) and correlation (Cor) approaches from the same data are reported. In addition, each
type of network for each dataset is assessed for the fit of a power law to the degree distribution (to assess whether network is
scale-free), the fit of a linear model to log10 clustering coefficient against log10 degree for each vertex (to assess whether network
is hierarchical), and the fit of a linear model to the correlation absolute value vs. phylogenetic distance between the bacterial ASVs
(to assess whether phylogenetic distance is related to interactions). Modularity is calculated and compared to modularity in random 
graphs of the same size. The dataframe of results is stored in the Tables folder.

7_KBMP2020_NetworkStructure.R
The commands in this file generate plots that compare the degree distributions of networks from different developmental stages to 
those of comparably-sized networks generated with the Barabasi-Albert model. They also generate a log-log plot of node clustering
coefficients vs. degree for networks from each stage and compare these trends to the expected negative slope for a hierarchical
network. Finally, plots of ASV prevalence and relative abundance against node properties like degree and betweenness are made.

